# Network Simulator

This page features a short description of the program and outlines its usage and architecture while also instructing how to generate the doxygen api documentation. License and team information at the bottom.

---

## Description

Simulates packets travelling in a network. The simulated network can be layed out with specific coordinates and attributes or generated randomly with given parameters. In both cases the running visualization highlights the links (or edges) in green that have packets travelling through them. Mode switch changes this to highlight the peaking traffic in the network in red as the queues fill up at the receiving nodes.

Nodes serve as platforms for connections and applications, which can be stacked into the somewhat freely. These applications have preset properties which in order execute the handling of incoming and outgoing packets. They are labeled with distinct labels, which simultaneously serve as their addresses.

Packets are very basic packets and are generated by a specific kind of an application, the PacketGenerator.

XML is used to define specific network layouts for the programs. The relative link should be given as an argument when launching the program. Read 'Usage' part for detailed instructions for how to write xml. Few test layouts have been provided for use in the 'resources' folder.

Random generation is triggered with arguments and the instructions are included in the 'Usage' part of this page.

The implementation of the program runs concurrently and enables parallelism. This enables it to generate quite large networks and calculate f.ex. shortest paths routing for them - which is the default routing algorithm used at the moment. The shortest path algorithm in use calculates progressively the shortest routes for all nodes thus redirecting the traffic as the program clock runs.

Individual shortest paths can be highlighted by clicking on the nodes. This will also highlight the link weights.

The gui is handled mainly with the keyboard. Keymap is shown at the bottom.

---

## Usage

+ Build with make (Makefile included and should handle most platforms)

 Running the executive:

```
./ns [relative-xml-file-path]
./ns [relative-xml-file-path] > log.txt
./ns random [node-count] [edge-count] [packet-generator-count]
```

+ Shows a gui that has few keys mapped and mouse controls. Runs a 10s elapse by default.
+ To modify the network, use xml files (resources directory).

Basic xml layout:

```xml
<network interval="10" slowdownrate="1.0" endTime="10000">
    <node address="somename" x="1.0" y="1.0">
        <application type="PacketReceiver"/>
        <application type="PacketGenerator"/>
           <destination address="A"/>
           ... more destinations ...
        
        ... more applications ...

    </node>

    ... more nodes ...

    <link source="A" destination="B" directed="false" type="Wireless" speed="1.0" delay="1.0" weight="1.0"/>
    
    ... more links ...

</network>
```

+ Network's parameters are optional
    + interval = ms for every step
    + slowdownrate = the bigger, the slower
    + endTime = end point for the intervals
+ Applications to be used are 
    + PacketReceiver
    + PacketGenerator - defines the destinations for the generated packets
    + RandomRouter - is random
    + RTableRouter - uses the nodes routing table
+ Routing can be done with 
    + the random applications
    + with aforementioned links (xml) between nodes.
    + few implemented path algorithms (Currently only shortest path is implemented)
        + This requires tweeking of the code

---

## Architecture

Classes are intended to follow loose coupling principles where applicable. It follows MVC-model abstracting the view layer. There's few other view layers implemented, but they are mostly for testing purposes. 

Threading has been implemented with computing the node and link changes. Synchronization has been taken into account, though it is yet to be tested thoroughly. This separation from the main-thread enables the view layer to operate reactively even if the background tasks are slowed down. 

### NetworkSimulator

+ Control layer for the program.
+ The NetworkSimulator inherits a Network and a Timer thus enclosing their functionality.

#### Network

+ Network has function which returns pointers to all links / nodes in network

Example of getting a specific node by address:

    `network.getNode("some address")`

#### Timer

+ Clocks the processes in the program.
+ Can be paused.

### Node

+ Abstract layer for the nodes (mainly the ApplicationNode)

#### ApplicationNode

+ An ApplicationNode (subclass of Node) has a vector of Applications, which are activated for the receives and sends every clock cycle. Applications process host node's packet queue by reference, so the order of the applications is crucial.

### Application

+ Application serve as a base class for Application logic / in other words for Routers, PacketGenerators (spew random packets) etc.

#### ApplicationFactory

+ ApplicationFactory can be used for spawning concrete implementations of the Application class.

### Link

+ Links are composed of a pair of two nodes = pair<Node *, Node *>.

+ The simplest link type is a directed link, but undirected or bidirectional links are implicit in current implementations. They are implemented by having two directed links.

#### ParametricLink

+ Links have source and address. They also enclose parameters for speed, delay and weight to simulate bandwidth, latency and other such factors.

---

## Testing

+ Uses [Catch](https://github.com/philsquared/Catch) testing framework

+ Basic usage is through arguments. The executive can be run normally by not giving it any parameters. Parameters override the executive to be utilized for testing.

Running tests for xml (linux):

```
./ns "[tag]" <options>
```

./ns refers to the built executive. The arguments include the tag of the test and options for the tests. To get tags for all tests use:

```
./ns -l
```

and for help and usage:

```
./ns -h
```

---

## Documentation

+ Included in the root folder are two doxygen configuration files. 

Doxygen documentation can be generated with these configuration by running:

    `doxygen <doxygen-conf-file>`

This will create documentation in html by default of the classes and their related material

### Requirements for the documentation

Doxygen - of course - to generate the documentation with it. This is the only requirement, if the non-graphs configuration is used.

The directory ./doc might be necessary to create by hand, if doxygen doesn't handle directory creation for you.
    
Graphviz should be installed to use doxygen with the graph enabled configuration. The graphs are built with graphviz's dot tool.

### Commenting for the documentation

Doxygen understands many variations of commenting. We should use these conventions:

    /**
     * Block comments for longer comments (classes etc)
     */

    /** one liners, that should be included in the doxygen */

    /* one liners that are only for code reading / no doxygen support */

    // same as the above (one liners)

---

## Directory structure

This repository contains three subdirectories:

+ plan/ for the plan 
+ doc/  for the final documentation
+ src/  for all the source code

---

## License


 MIT license applies for all that's included here, if not explicitly stated otherwise (in files). See LICENSE.

---

## Team

Agrasagar Bhattacharyya
Chamran Moradi Ashour
Joni Turunen
Tommi Gröhn
